2018 Feb. 2

The presentation I gave to introduce myself was partly successful, but only in some aspects. The aspects of it that went best are that I feel the audience got a /general/ sense of my aesthetic, my general goals, and my artistic style. The aspect where it was not as successful is that, in my view, I failed to convey effectively all the details of the information that I wished to convey. There were a few factors that caused that, I think. First, I tried to communicate too many details to fit within the short duration of the presentation. Second, when speaking, I did not keep my speech connected to the slides, because I tried to say more than fits within the ten seconds I had for each slide; consequently, the audience's attention would be split between the material on the slides and the topically distinct material I spoke. Third, trying to share my musical work at the same time as speaking to share my other work, while somewhat necessary to pack all the information into the presentation, ended up being more distracting than would have been ideal. The poem I presented also was longer than could be read within the forty seconds I gave it. I think the slides were fairly good had it been a longer presentation, where each slide could accommodate a couple of minutes of exposition to help the content presented sink in. One main cause of the presentation not being as effective as it could have been, I think, was that the contents were so broad in scope. The general structure of the presentation comprised two sections: an explanation of the project that I have been developing as my life's work, and a presentation of the artistic works that I have personally created. One strategy I would use if I repeated this presentation would be to read from a printed script that I had developed to be timed to fit the slides' timing. That, however, would not fully resolve all the various issues that affected the presentation. I am not sure how to present the musical work or the poetry effectively, as more time 
