IRB presentation!

The basis is the "Common Rule". (Federal). What need IRB approvial? Research involving human subjects. Research = systematic investigation,designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledeg. 
If you are interviewing peopel and looking for common inframation from the interviews, then that is "research".
If you ar interviewing people for putting their interview in a documentary, but are NOT extracting generalizable knowledge from them, then they are not research.
Generalizable knowledge: Info. that has the potential to be expanded from the isolated circumstances in which it is acquired to any broader context.
Human subjects:Living individuals about whom an investigator conducting research obtains.
	* Data through intervention or interaction with the individual
	* Identifiable private information
What needs to be reviewede?
	* Disemination of findings to a scientific audience is a sufficient, but not necessary, critarion for defining research.
	* Possible outlets: Journals, scientific meetings, internet postings, presentations in uni, state, national, or international settings
	* IRB does NOT give retroactive approvale. If you have not got approval first, you may NOT present your work.
	* If any questions, ask IRB.
If we want aply for  IRB review, we can apply on the uni web site.
All research personel eg. us must do 'CITI review training' and have a prof. sponsor.
If our participants are not adult, it is more complicated and have more restrictions.
If we do reserch, we must communicate to the people what we are doing, why we are doing the research, whether or how much confidential the resulting data are. Make sure people are informed.
Tell them how long the data will be retained, and where.
Communicate Benefists and riskss (of the project, of the research, benifits and risks to subjects, communicate to subjects) too (including e.g. persons time and inconfenience, psychological distress, etc).
Intellectual property and privacy concerns are applicable too. E.g. if you have a Web site that requests name or picture - people might not know if it will be public or not or whatever. Has to do with ethics and the law. Even if you are not doing research, if you are using somebody's data in some way, you have to take some precautions to make sure you respect their wishes in the way the data will be used.
Exemptions from IRB review - only means exempt from *full* board rewiew. But, it still needs to be rewiewed.
Takes about 10 days for exempt review. Takes longer if needs a full board review. Full board rewiews happen about once a month. There is another category called "expedited review". While often protected categories (children, people with mental health issues, prisoners, etc) will require full board review, particularly benign studies might be granted expedited review.
https://umaine.edu/research-compliance/human-subjects/
umric@maine.edu
Data use ethics, communication, privacy notices, etc. are important regardless whether it needs IRB approval or not.
